# Primary and Foreign Key

Primary keys and foreign keys are two types of constraints that can be used to enforce data integrity in SQL Server tables. These are important database objects.

## Primary Key

A table typically has a column or combination of columns that contain values that uniquely identify each row in the table. This column, or columns, is called the primary key (PK) of the table and enforces the entity integrity of the table. Because primary key constraints guarantee unique data, they are frequently defined on an identity column.

* A table can contain only one primary key constraint.
* A primary key cannot exceed 16 columns and a total key length of 900 bytes.
* The index generated by a primary key constraint cannot cause the number of indexes on the table to exceed 999 nonclustered indexes and 1 clustered index.
* If clustered or nonclustered is not specified for a primary key constraint, clustered is used if there no clustered index on the table.
* All columns defined within a primary key constraint must be defined as not null. If nullability is not specified, all columns participating in a primary key constraint have their nullability set to not null.
* If a primary key is defined on a CLR user-defined type column, the implementation of the type must support binary ordering.

## Foreign Key

A foreign key (FK) is a column or combination of columns that is used to establish and enforce a link between the data in two tables to control the data that can be stored in the foreign key table. In a foreign key reference, a link is created between two tables when the column or columns that hold the primary key value for one table are referenced by the column or columns in another table. This column becomes a foreign key in the second table.