# Normalizing a Database

Normalization is a process of reducing redundancies of data in a database. Normalization is a technique that is used when designing and redesigning a database. Normalization is a process or set of guidelines used to optimally design a database to reduce redundant data.

## Advantages of Normalization

Normalization provides numerous benefits to a database. Some of the major benefits include the following :

* Greater overall database organization

Organization is brought about by the normalization process, making everyone's job easier, from the user who accesses tables to the database administrator (DBA) who is responsible for the overall management of every object in the database.

* Reduction of redundant data

Data redundancy is reduced, which simplifies data structures and conserves disk space.

* Data consistency within the database

Because duplicate data is minimized, the possibility of inconsistent data is greatly reduced.

* A much more flexible database design

Because the database has been normalized and broken into smaller tables, you are provided with more flexibility as far as modifying existing structures. It is much easier to modify a small table with little data than to modify one big table that holds all the vital data in the database.

* A better handle on database security

Lastly, security is also provided in the sense that the DBA can grant access to limited tables to certain users. Security is easier to control when normalization has occurred.

Data integrity is the assurance of consistent and accurate data within a database.