# Transactions Overview

A database transaction is a larger unit that frames multiple SQL statements. A transaction ensures that the action of the framed statements is atomic with respect to recovery.

If a transaction is successful, all of the data modifications made during the transaction are committed and become a permanent part of the database. If a transaction encounters errors and must be canceled or rolled back, then all of the data modifications are erased.

SQL Server operates in the following transaction modes.

## Autocommit transactions

Each individual statement is a transaction.

## Explicit transactions

Each transaction is explicitly started with the BEGIN TRANSACTION statement and explicitly ended with a COMMIT or ROLLBACK statement.

## Implicit transactions

A new transaction is implicitly started when the prior transaction completes, but each transaction is explicitly completed with a COMMIT or ROLLBACK statement.

## Batch-scoped transactions

Applicable only to multiple active result sets (MARS), a Transact-SQL explicit or implicit transaction that starts under a MARS session becomes a batch-scoped transaction. A batch-scoped transaction that is not committed or rolled back when a batch completes is automatically rolled back by SQL Server.


## Example

```
USE pubs

DECLARE @intErrorCode INT

BEGIN TRAN
    UPDATE Authors
    SET Phone = '415 354-9866'
    WHERE au_id = '724-80-9391'

    SELECT @intErrorCode = @@ERROR
    IF (@intErrorCode <> 0) GOTO PROBLEM

    UPDATE Publishers
    SET city = 'Calcutta', country = 'India'
    WHERE pub_id = '9999'

    SELECT @intErrorCode = @@ERROR
    IF (@intErrorCode <> 0) GOTO PROBLEM
COMMIT TRAN

PROBLEM:
IF (@intErrorCode <> 0) BEGIN
PRINT 'Unexpected error occurred!'
    ROLLBACK TRAN
END
```