# NoSQL database examples

Dozens of NoSQL data stores are available; the following are among the most popular:

* MongoDB. Open-source document database.
* CouchDB. Database that uses JSON for documents, JavaScript for MapReduce queries, and regular HTTP for an API.
* GemFire. Distributed data management platform providing dynamic scalability, high performance, and database-like persistence.
* Redis. Data structure server wherein keys can contain strings, hashes, lists, sets, and sorted sets.
* Cassandra. Database that provides scalability and high availability without compromising performance.
* memcached. Open source high-performance, distributed-memory, and object-caching system.
* Hazelcast. Open source highly scalable data distribution platform.
* HBase. Hadoop database, a distributed and scalable big data store.
* Mnesia. Distributed database management system that exhibits soft real-time properties.
* Neo4j. Open source high-performance, enterprise-grade graph database.

# The Benefits of NoSQL

When compared to relational databases, NoSQL databases are more scalable and provide superior performance, and their data model addresses several issues that the relational model is not designed to address:

* Large volumes of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data
* Agile sprints, quick iteration, and frequent code pushes
* Object-oriented programming that is easy to use and flexible
* Efficient, scale-out architecture instead of expensive, monolithic architecture

# Limitations of NoSQL

SQL is a powerful, 40-year-old standard that has been possible because all relational databases have the same concept of storing data in tables and relating data through foreign keys. Although switching from one relational database to another isn't 100% transparent, it is much easier than switching between two different NoSQL data stores. Developers that have learned SQL have little challenge switching between vendors.

Because each NoSQL data store has unique aspects in both how its data is stored as well as how different bits of data relate to each other, no single API manages them all. When embracing a new NoSQL data store, the developer must invest time and effort to learn the new query language as well as the consistency semantics.